fix(debugger): Update span docs (#5131)
Kong/developer.konghq.com: app/observability/debugger-spans.md

When you set up a tracing session with [{{site.konnect_short_name}} Debugger](/observability/debugger/), it collects and reports spans that are part of the request-response flow.
The following sections describe the spans that are available in the {{site.konnect_short_name}} Debugger.

> In this page, `3p` or `3rd party` means any network interaction that falls outside the main client -> Kong -> upstream request flow, such as DNS lookups or calls from Kong to external services like auth providers, Redis, or metadata APIs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you set up a tracing session with [{{site.konnect_short_name}} Debugger](/observability/debugger/), it collects and reports spans that are part of the request-response flow. 
The following sections describe the spans available in {{site.konnect_short_name}} Debugger.

On this page, the term "3p" or "3rd party" refers to any network interaction outside the main `client → Kong → upstream` request flow, such as DNS lookups or calls from Kong to external services like auth providers, Redis, or metadata APIs.
```

    description: Full url, without query parameters
  - name: "`client.address`"
    description: |

>         Remote address of the actual client making the request. We try to handle proxy situations too where the client may be coming through a proxy. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Remote address of the actual client making the request, including any client that is communicating through a proxy, if possible.
```

        <br><br>
        {:.info}
        > Note: This requires configuring [`trusted_ips`](/gateway/configuration/#trusted-ips) and may require configuring [`real_ip_header`](/gateway/configuration/#real_ip_header).
  - name: "`client.port`"
    description: |

>         Remote port of the client making the request. We try to handle proxy situations too where the client may be coming through a proxy. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Remote port of the client making the request, including any client that is communicating through a proxy, if possible.
```

    description: Full url, without query parameters
  - name: "`client.address`"
    description: |

>         Remote address of the actual client making the request. We try to handle proxy situations too where the client may be coming through a proxy. Note: this requires configuring [trusted\_ips](https://developer.konghq.com/gateway/configuration/#trusted-ips) and may require configuring [real\_ip\_header](https://docs.konghq.com/gateway/latest/reference/configuration/#real_ip_header).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Remote address of the actual client making the request. We try to handle proxy situations too where the client may be coming through a proxy. 
        <br><br>
        {:.info}
        > Note: This requires configuring [`trusted_ips`](/gateway/configuration/#trusted-ips) and may require configuring [`real_ip_header`](/gateway/configuration/#real_ip_header).
```

>         Remote address of the actual client making the request. We try to handle proxy situations too where the client may be coming through a proxy. Note: this requires configuring [trusted\_ips](https://developer.konghq.com/gateway/configuration/#trusted-ips) and may require configuring [real\_ip\_header](https://docs.konghq.com/gateway/latest/reference/configuration/#real_ip_header).

Reviewer: @samugi do you know what this means in this context? "We try to handle proxy situations too where the client may be coming through a proxy." - this is vague for a reference. 

Is it something like:

" Remote address of the actual client making the request, including any client that is communicating through a proxy, if possible."

Reviewer 2: yes @lena-larionova, what you said. If there is a proxy in between, the client and Kong, we still use the information available (based on the real_ip_header config) to populate this value with the original client's (the one that initiated the reqeust) IP address.

  - name: "`client.port`"
    description: |

>         Remote port of the client making the request. We try to handle proxy situations too where the client may be coming through a proxy. Note: this requires configuring [trusted\_ips](https://developer.konghq.com/gateway/configuration/#trusted-ips) and may require configuring [real\_ip\_header](https://docs.konghq.com/gateway/latest/reference/configuration/#real_ip_header).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Remote port of the client making the request. We try to handle proxy situations too where the client may be coming through a proxy. 
        <br><br>
        {:.info}
        > Note: This requires configuring [`trusted_ips`](/gateway/configuration/#trusted-ips) and may require configuring [`real_ip_header`](/gateway/configuration/#real_ip_header).
```

  - name: "`network.peer.address`"
    description: IP of the network peer that is connecting to Kong
  - name: "`network.peer.port`"
    description: Port of the network peer that is connecting to Kong
  - name: "`server.address`"

>     description: Kong can listen on multiple IP addresses. This is the IP address at which Kong received the request

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    description: |
      {{site.base_gateway}} can listen on multiple IP addresses. This is the IP address at which Kong received the request.
```

  - name: "`server.port`"

>     description: The port at which Kong received the request

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    description: The port at which Kong received the request.
```

  - name: "`network.protocol.name`"

>     description: Name of the network protocol. Currently Debugger only supports `http`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    description: |
      Name of the network protocol. Debugger only supports `http`.
```
"Currently" is best avoided in docs.

  - name: "`http.request.method`"
    description: HTTP request method
  - name: "`proxy.kong.request.id`"

>     description: Unique id created by Kong for each request. [Useful for debugging](https://developer.konghq.com/gateway/debug-requests/#x-kong-request-id-header).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    description: |
      Unique ID created by {{site.base_gateway}} for each request. [Useful for debugging](/gateway/debug-requests/#x-kong-request-id-header).
```

  - name: "`proxy.kong.request.time`"
    description: Time taken to process this request as measured from reading the first byte from the client, to writing the last byte to the client. Logging handler time is not part of this calculation.
  - name: "`proxy.kong.http.request.body.size`"

>     description: Request body length in bytes. Request Header size is not included

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    description: Request body length in bytes. Request header size is not included.
```

  - name: "`http.request.size`"
    description: Request body size and request headers size in bytes
  - name: "`proxy.kong.http.response.body.size`"

>     description: Response body length in bytes. Response Header size is not included

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    description: Response body length in bytes. Response header size is not included.
```

  - name: "`http.response.size`"
    description: Response body size and response headers size in bytes
  - name: "`url.scheme`"
    description: Protocol identifier
  - name: "`network.protocol.version`"
    description: Version of the HTTP protocol used in establishing connection [1.2, 2.0]
  - name: "`proxy.kong.request.host`"

>     description: The value of "Host" as determined by Kong in this order of precedence: host name from the request line, or host name from the “Host” request header field, or the server name matching a request 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    description: |
      The value of `Host` as determined by {{site.base_gateway}} in the following order of precedence: 
       1. Hostname from the request line.
       1. Hostname from the `Host` request header field.
       1. Server name matching a request.
```

  - name: "`proxy.kong.consumer.id`"
    description: Authenticated Consumer ID if present
  - name: "`proxy.kong.upstream.id`"
    description: Resolved Upstream ID
  - name: "`proxy.kong.upstream.status_code`"

>     description: status code returned by Upstream to Kong

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    description: |
      Status code returned by the upstream to {{site.base_gateway}}.
```

  - name: "`http.response.status_code`"

>     description: Status code sent back by Kong to client

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    description: |
      Status code sent back by {{site.base_gateway}} to client.
```

  - name: "`proxy.kong.latency.3p.dns.total_io`"

>     description: Time spent performing synchronous DNS I/O operations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    description: |
      Time spent performing synchronous DNS I/O operations.
```

  - name: "`proxy.kong.latency.3p.http_client.total_io`"

>     description: Time spent on third party HTTP calls (like talking to an auth server, fetching metadata from a external http api and so forth)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    description: |
      Time spent on third party HTTP calls (for example, talking to an auth server or fetching metadata from a external HTTP API).
```

  - name: "`proxy.kong.latency.3p.redis.total_io`"

>     description: Time spent on executing Redis operations and performing network I/O to redis

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    description: |
      Time spent on executing Redis operations and performing network I/O to Redis.
```

  - name: "`proxy.kong.latency.3p.tcpsock.total_io`"

>     description: Time spent performing raw TCP socket I/O operations that are not using the internal instrumented DNS, HTTP or Redis clients

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    description: |
      Time spent performing raw TCP socket I/O operations that are not using the internal instrumented DNS, HTTP, or Redis clients.
```

  - name: "`proxy.kong.latency.3p.total_io`"

>     description: Total time spent performing all third-party I/O operations (DNS + Redis + HTTP + Raw)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    description: |
      Total time spent performing all third-party I/O operations (DNS + Redis + HTTP + Raw).
```

  - name: "`proxy.kong.latency.client`"

>     description: Time spent waiting for the client to send or receive data. This attribute includes time spent waiting for client to finish TLS handshake (span `tls_handshake`), send all HTTP headers (span `read_client_http_headers`), send the request body (span `read_client_http_body`) and the time taken for the client to read the full response (span `wait_for_client_read`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    description: |
      Time spent waiting for the client to send or receive data. 
      This attribute includes time spent waiting for client to finish the TLS handshake (span `tls_handshake`), send all HTTP headers (span `read_client_http_headers`), send the request body (span `read_client_http_body`), and the time taken for the client to read the full response (span `wait_for_client_read`).
```

  - name: "`proxy.kong.latency.upstream.read_headers_duration`"

>     description: Time spent reading response headers from the upstream

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    description: Time spent reading response headers from the upstream.
```

  - name: "`proxy.kong.latency.upstream.read_body_duration`"

>     description: Time spent reading the response body from the upstream

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    description: Time spent reading the response body from the upstream.
```

  - name: "`proxy.kong.latency.upstream`"

>     description: Time between the connection to the upstream and the last byte of response. This factors in attempts to connect to a healthy upstream if multiple upstreams were configured. See span `upstream.selection` to see breakdown of each failed attempt and the successful attempt.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    description: |
      Time between the connection to the upstream and the last byte of response. 
      This factors in attempts to connect to a healthy upstream if multiple upstreams are configured. 
      See the span `upstream.selection` to see a breakdown of each failed attempt and the successful attempt.
```

  - name: "`proxy.kong.latency.total`"
    description: Time between the first byte into Kong and the last byte out of Kong
  - name: "`proxy.kong.latency.internal`"
    description: Time taken by Kong to process the request. Excludes client and upstream read/write times, and third party I/O. This is the actual contribution of Kong itself to the latency of the request.
  - name: "`http.request.header.connection`"
    description: The value of the `Connection` header if present. A value of `close` implies that the client does not want to use KeepAlive.
  - name: "`proxy.kong.client.connection.request_count`"
    description: The total number of HTTP requests sent by the client over the same reused underlying TCP connection
  - name: "`tls.resumed`"

>     description: Whether the TLS session was resumed. A value of `true` implies that the client is reusing an existing TLS (& TCP) connection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    description: |
      Time taken by {{site.base_gateway}} to process the request. 
      Excludes client and upstream read/write times, and third party I/O. 
      This is the actual contribution of {{site.base_gateway}}  itself to the latency of the request.
  - name: "`http.request.header.connection`"
    description: |
      The value of the `Connection` header, if present. 
      A value of `close` implies that the client does not want to use `KeepAlive`.
  - name: "`proxy.kong.client.connection.request_count`"
    description: |
      The total number of HTTP requests sent by the client over the same reused underlying TCP connection.
- name: "`tls.resumed`"
    description: |
      Whether the TLS session was resumed. 
      A value of `true` implies that the client is reusing an existing TLS (& TCP) connection.
```

<!--vale on-->
### kong.phase.certificate

> A span capturing the execution of the `certificate` phase of request processing. Any plugins configured for running in this phase will show up as individual child spans. This phase runs before the TLS handshake happens. Plugins usually use this phase to setup the server certificate they want to present to clients.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A span capturing the execution of the `certificate` phase of request processing. Any plugins configured for running in this phase will show up as individual child spans. 
This phase runs before the TLS handshake. Plugins usually use this phase to set up the server certificate they want to present to clients.
```

  - title: Description
    key: description
rows:
  - name: "`proxy.kong.plugin.id`"

>     description: ID of the plugin configuration that ran

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    description: ID of the plugin configuration that ran.
```

This span has the following attributes:
{{instance_id}}

### kong.io.<network_transport>.<operation>
A span capturing network i/o timing that occurs during plugin execution or other request processing. 

Can be one of:
* `kong.io.http.request`: Requests done by the internal http client during the flow
* `kong.io.http.connect`: Connections done by the internal http client during the flow
* `kong.io.redis.<function>`: Redis functions
* `kong.io.socket.connect`: Connections on the internal nginx socket
* `kong.io.socket.sslhandshake`: SSL Handshake operations on the internal nginx socket
* `kong.io.socket.send`: Send operations on the internal nginx socket

> * `kong.io.socket.receive`: Receive operations on the internal nginx socket

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `kong.io.socket.connect`: Connections on the internal Nginx socket
* `kong.io.socket.sslhandshake`: SSL handshake operations on the internal Nginx socket
* `kong.io.socket.send`: Send operations on the internal Nginx socket
* `kong.io.socket.receive`: Receive operations on the internal Nginx socket
```

{{instance_id}}

### kong.wait_for_client_read
A span that measures the time Kong spends finishing the response write to the client. This duration may be extended for slow-reading clients, resulting in a longer span.

### kong.phase.log
A span capturing the execution of the `log` phase. Any plugins configured for running in this phase will show up as individual child spans.

### kong.analytics.log_request

> A span capturing the execution of analytics logging. This span represents the time taken to prepare and serialize  analytics data during each request's log phase. That data will be later exported to Konnect in batches, asynchronously.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A span capturing the execution of analytics logging. This span represents the time taken to prepare and serialize analytics data during each request's log phase. 
That data is later exported to {{site.konnect_short_name}} in batches, asynchronously.
```
